README.md, before:

# REcover

REcover is a tool for approximately recovering the compile-unit layout from
stripped ELF binary executables. REcover consists of an IDAPython plug-in,
used for exporting information, and a command line tool, for running various
analyses.


## Installation

1. Create and activate a new virtual environment:

        $ python -m venv /tmp/recover-venv
        $ . /tmp/recover-venv/bin/activate

2. Clone and install REcover and its dependencies:

        $ cd /tmp
        $ git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/huku-/recover.git
        $ cd recover
        $ pip install -r .

3. Make sure everything works as expected:

        $ recover -h


## Using REcover

Let's analyze ELF binary `sha256sum` from `coreutils-7.6-O3` of the DeepBinDiff
dataset:

    $ ls -la /tmp/example/sha256sum
    -rwxr-x--- 1 huku huku 239696 Jun  4 18:57 /tmp/example/sha256sum
    $ file /tmp/example/sha256sum
    /tmp/example/sha256sum: ELF 64-bit LSB executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, interpreter /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, for GNU/Linux 2.6.32, BuildID[sha1]=c08bcb9aede425a19d263c5e5d9c55b8f9f63701, with debug_info, not stripped

Even though the above executable comes with debug information (i.e. it's not
actually stripped), the latter is not used by REcover when estimating the
compile-unit layout.


### <u>Export data using IDA Pro</u>

Fire up IDA Pro and run the REcover exporter. Either navigate to `File` &rarr;
`Script file...` and choose **main.py** or run the following command:

    RECOVER_EXIT=1 ida64 -A -S/tmp/recover/src/recover/main.py \
        /tmp/example/sha256sum

When the process exits, the following files should have been created in the same
directory where the ELF executable resides:

    $ ls -la /tmp/example/*.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku 34817 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/afcg.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku 35010 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/dfg.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku 60956 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/pdg.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku  1354 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/segs.pcl


### <u>Estimate compile-units</u>

To run an actual compile-unit estimation analysis, use `recover` from the command
line as shown below:

    $ recover --estimator agglnse \
        --fitness-function modularity \
        --optimizer brute \
        -k /tmp/example/estimated_cu_map.pcl \
        -j /tmp/example/estimated_cu_map.json \
        --debug \
        /tmp/example

There is a variety of estimators (`--estimator`), fitness functions (`--fitness-function`)
and optimizers (`--optimizer`) to choose from. See `recover -h` for more information.


## References

**TODO**

Commit message:

Add notes on extending REcover (WIP)

README.md, after:

# REcover

REcover is a tool for approximately recovering the compile-unit layout from
stripped binary executables. REcover consists of an IDAPython plug-in, used for
exporting information, and a command line tool, for running various analyses.


## Installation

1. Create and activate a new virtual environment:

        $ python -m venv /tmp/recover-venv
        $ . /tmp/recover-venv/bin/activate

2. Clone and install REcover and its dependencies:

        $ cd /tmp
        $ git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/huku-/recover.git
        $ cd recover
        $ pip install -r .

3. Make sure everything works as expected:

        $ recover -h


## Using REcover

Let's analyze ELF binary `sha256sum` from `coreutils-7.6-O3` of the DeepBinDiff
dataset:

    $ ls -la /tmp/example/sha256sum
    -rwxr-x--- 1 huku huku 239696 Jun  4 18:57 /tmp/example/sha256sum
    $ file /tmp/example/sha256sum
    /tmp/example/sha256sum: ELF 64-bit LSB executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, interpreter /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, for GNU/Linux 2.6.32, BuildID[sha1]=c08bcb9aede425a19d263c5e5d9c55b8f9f63701, with debug_info, not stripped

Even though the above executable comes with debug information (i.e. it's not
actually stripped), the latter is not used by REcover when estimating the
compile-unit layout.


### <u>Export data using IDA Pro</u>

Fire up IDA Pro and run the REcover exporter. Either navigate to `File` &rarr;
`Script file...` and choose **main.py** or run the following command:

    RECOVER_EXIT=1 ida64 -A -S/tmp/recover/src/recover/main.py \
        /tmp/example/sha256sum

When the process exits, the following files should have been created in the same
directory where the ELF executable resides:

    $ ls -la /tmp/example/*.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku 34817 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/afcg.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku 35010 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/dfg.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku 60956 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/pdg.pcl
    -rw-r--r-- 1 huku huku  1354 Jun  4 22:35 /tmp/example/segs.pcl


### <u>Estimate compile-units</u>

To run an actual compile-unit estimation analysis, use `recover` from the command
line as shown below:

    $ recover --estimator agglnse \
        --fitness-function modularity \
        --optimizer brute \
        -k /tmp/example/estimated_cu_map.pcl \
        -j /tmp/example/estimated_cu_map.json \
        --debug \
        /tmp/example

There is a variety of estimators (`--estimator`), fitness functions (`--fitness-function`)
and optimizers (`--optimizer`) to choose from. See `recover -h` for more information.


## Documentation

* See [Extending REcover](doc/extending.md) for more information on how to extend
  REcover.

* Complete API reference is on the way!


## References

**TODO**
